{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red50\green98\blue178;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa320

\f0\fs32 \cf2 # D3 Data Visualization \
## by Eric Gordon\
This Project is my first attempt at using D3 to create a data Visualization. Summary This project tries to show the numerical difference at which Southwest Airlines seems to operate versus all major United States Airline companies. Not only does Southwest have more flights annually than every other carrier, but it also seems to be increasing in the future, with the potential of gaining a larger advantage over the competition. The data available for public use sadly only went up to 2008, however this data was enough to show the shocking disparity of the number of commercial Southwest flights, versus all other carriers. The final version of this visualization is labeled index.html.\
Design Too make this point clear, I decided upon a graphic line chart, which I felt really helped show the two major take away points from my data analysis. First, that Southwest seems to be increasing in the number of flights they are operating year after year. Additionally, Southwest seems to operate many more flights any other American based airline, which was a surprise to me. I wanted to show both this change over time and the comparison of of different airlines, so I felt that this line graph was the best option to show off my analysis. A major priority was learning to code with d3.js, so I worked exclusively in this language without wanting to incorporate other applications that are more user friendly. However I was able to implement some interactivity with information \'93toolips \'94when you hover over the points, and the company selection buttons, which I enjoyed coding. Most changes in the design were made to help improve clarity, make my findings more clear, and push the point across that Southwest clearly flights more annually than any other carrier. These designs were made in consideration with several pieces of feedback I heard from others.\
Feedback The first person who looked at my plot, and recommended that I remove a lot of the excess plots because it was hard to see all of the carriers at the same time. He said, "yes it is easy to see Southwest above all of the other companies, but it is hard to compare others like JetBlue and American Airlines, I wish I could do that." So with this recommendation, I decided to make the interactive buttons on the side of the chart, so that plots could be selected and deselected.\
I showed this project again to another individual, after the buttons were added, and she recommend to start off with less of the charts on the plot. "I like that I can get rid of some of the lines, but there are so many of them. I don't want to do all of that work." She did have a very reasonable point, So I decided to make the starting plot only have Southwest Airlines, instead of starting with so many plots.\
Another person helped me organize the color scheme, styles, and layout, to help me fit it all on the same page. This individual liked the char, and was also shocked about Southwest operated so many more flights than other carriers!\
Resources General d3.js help and documentation: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://leanpub.com/D3-Tips-and-Tricks/read"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://leanpub.com/D3-Tips-and-Tricks/read}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://bost.ocks.org/mike/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://bost.ocks.org/mike/}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/index.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/index.html}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d3js.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://d3js.org/}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.udacity.com/course/data-visualization-and-d3js--ud507"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 https://www.udacity.com/course/data-visualization-and-d3js--ud507}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf2 Inspiration with Buttons {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bl.ocks.org/d3noob/5d621a60e2d1d02086bf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 http://bl.ocks.org/d3noob/5d621a60e2d1d02086bf}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
}